A .ctr file specifies how DELAUNDO will treat the nodes read 
from a .pts file. It is not necessary to use a .ctr file, all
input can also be entered at a prompt. However, as FroD is
a rather fast grid generation method, playing around with 
parameters is recommended to get a feel on how FroD behaves.
Using a .ctr file makes this very easy.

DELAUNDO looks first for a file 'delaundo.ctr' in your local
directory. Depending on the parameters set in that file, it
will or will not prompt you for any other input. If such a
file does not exist, you are prompted for a filename. If you
enter at this prompt:
- a '?', you will be prompted for all required parameters,
  e.g. input file name, output file name ....
- the string 'ALLPAR' (in captials!), you will be prompted
  for all parameters that apply to your current selections.
  E.g. you will be not prompted for an aspect ratio if you
  don't want stretched grids. If you enter a non-applicable
  answer, e.g. an integer rather than character, the default
  value is taken, if applicable.
- the string 'HELPME'(in captials!), you will enter the
  help menu with the different sub-options (as you apparently
  did).
- the string 'XAMPLE'(in captials!), you will be able to run
  a few demos.
- the string 'RELEAS' (you guessed it), you will obtain infor-
  mation pertaining to the current release, like the version
  number you're running or changes from the last version.
- a filename, DELAUNDO will try to read this file to extract
  the necessary information.

In a .ctr file, information is adressed by six-letter
capitalized keywords. The option selected or the value given
or whatever, follows the line after the keyword.
The keywords and the options are:

IGNORE
 The rest of this line will be ignored. A '%' will work in
 the same way.

HELPME
 The help menu will be called up and allows you to choose
 one of the help pages.

XAMPLE	
 The example menu will be called up and allows you to choose
 one of the examples.

RELEAS
 Information about the current release.

VERBOS
 This sets the verbosity. 0 gives you no output at all, except
 for warnings and fatal error messages, 5 will give you all
 there is to say. Default value is 3 (I think).

ALLPAR
  Set to 't' or 'y', you will be prompted
  for all parameters that apply to your current selections.
  E.g. you will be not prompted for an aspect ratio if you
  don't want stretched grids. If you enter a non-applicable
  answer, e.g. an integer rather than character, the default
  value is taken, if applicable. Default is 'n','f'.

INFILE
  The file name of the .pts file with the nodes. The default
  is 'delaundo.pts'.

INFORM
  The input file can be formatted 'y','t', or unformatted 'n',
  'f'. Input file formats, .pts, are explained in a separate
  help page. The default is 't'.

NODEUS
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO use a given set
  of internal nodes. Note that only either of NODEUS or NODECO
  may be specified due to coding constraints. Default is 'f','n'

NODECO
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO construct a set of
  internal nodes with the FroD method. Default is 't','y'.

ASKROW
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO prompt the user
  for more rows to be constructed, once the current counts have
  been exceeded. Otherwise the process will output the grid at
  the current stage. Default is 'f','n'.

ANTICO
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO use the "anti-con-
  nectivity-information" specified in the .pts file. Default is
  'f','n'.

ALLDIS
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO remove all edges in
  the background grid that connect between non-consecutive
  boundary nodes, even if they reside on the same boundary seg-
  ment. Use it with discretion as this might lead to many many
  extra nodes needed for the disconnection of close surfaces.

SPCRAT
  This floating point value specifies the ratio between the
  spacing gradients at the points of highest and lowest spacing
  Values higher than one will cause DELAUNDO to interpolate
  with a power law to extend the regions of fine spacing further
  into the domain. Default is 1.

DTOLER
  This floating point value specifies the fraction of the
  background mesh size that is being used as a minimum distance
  between nodes. Default value is .65

QTOLER
  This floating point value specifies the minimum fraction of the
  the maximum sidelength that the smaller sides must have in
  order to make the triangle acceptable. Default value is .65
  
STRETC
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO construct a layer
  of wedge type stretched triangles in form of rectangular boxes
  around frontal surfaces. Default is 'f','n'.

BTOLER
  This floating point value specifies the minimum fraction of the
  background mesh size that is being used as a minimum distance
  between nodes in the background grid. Default value is 2.

DELTAS
  This floating point value specifies the thickness of the
  stretched layer in the scale of the other points. IF STRETC
  is specified as 't' or 'y', this parameter is required.

MAXASP
  This floating point value specifies the maximum aspect ratio
  in the stretched layer. IF STRETC is specified as 't' or 'y',
  this parameter is required.

MVISRO
  This integer value specifies how many stretched, viscous rows
  are to be built. If ASKROW is set to 't' or 'y', the user will
  be prompted for more rows. (Limiting the number of rows is to
  be considered a debugging tool.) Default is 30000.

ISMOOT
  This integer value specifies how many stretched rows of cells
  will be opened for isotropic retriangulation once the 
  stretched process has terminated. 0 does not allow any retri-
  angulation, 1 allows retriangulation of the outermost cells,
  2 allows retriangulation of the neighbors of the outermost
  cells as well. (Note that whenever stretched layers from
  different geometry segments impinge on each other, the "sew-
  up" becomes more gentle with ISMOOT:2). Default is 2.

MISORO
  This integer value specifies how many isotropic rows
  are to be built. If ASKROW is set to 't' or 'y', the user will
  be prompted for more rows. (Limiting the number of rows is to
  be considered a debugging tool.) Default is 30000.

LAPLAC
  If set to 't' or 'y', a Laplacian filter is applied to smoothen
  the mesh. Default is 'f'. Note that the applying the Laplacian
  to a stretched mesh will most likely fail due to mesh overlap.
  The ensuing process back toward Delaunay will not be able to
  recover.

RSWEEP
  This integer value specifies the number of relaxation sweeps for
  the Laplacian. Default is 10.

LPBETA
  This floating point value specifies how much the weight of the
  points increases with increasing vertex degree. 0. means fixed
  weights, 1. is maximum variance. Default is .5.

RELFAC
  This floating point value specifies the relaxation factor for
  the Laplacian. The stability limits are [0.,1.], default is .75

MLEVEL
  This integer value specifies the number of multigrid levels that
  are to be produced. The maximum permissible depth is 10, default
  is 1.

FLATSW
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO swap diagonals in
  the final mesh in order to minimize the maximum angles. (Note
  that although the implementation is rather efficient to prevent
  any N**2 worst case, it is supposed to be used only to correct
  cases where the stretched process has stopped before reaching
  isotropy and the isotropic process created flat cells.) Default
  is 'f','n'.

ANGMAX
  This floating point value specifies the maximum tolerable cell
  angle before FLATSW kicks in. (Note that this doesn't guarantee
  that all angles are below that value. A diagonal switch is not
  carried out if the maximum angle in the quadrilateral were to
  increase.) Default is 120.

MCYCSW
  This integer value specifies how many swapping cycles are to
  be executed. Default is 10.

OUTFIL
  This string is the output file name. The default is 'delaundo.dpl'.

OUTTYP
  This character determines the output type. Possible types are:
  t: the triangulation with the cells outside the domain removed.
  q: the triangulation of t, but with 6 nodes per triangle for
     quadratic elements.
  h: the convex hull with all the triangles. This is useful for
     creating a grid of scattered nodes for interpolation purposes
     or for debugging in case a boundary enforcement check fails.
  b: the background grid with the automatically added background
     nodes. Nodal values given are the node spacing as rho (1.
     state quantity) and the stretching magnitude multiplied by
     the spacing as rho*u (2. state quantity).
  i: the initial triangulation of the set of given nodes for 
     debugging purposes.
  The default is 't'.

OUTFOR
  This character determines the output format. Possible formats are:
  g: a VKB .gri file with grid. Only for t,q,h types.
  o: a VKB .out file with grid and solution. Only for t,q,h types.
  d: a dplot file. All types. USE THIS ONE! This fileformat is
     explained in a separate help page.
  u: a AvS ucd file. NOT really supported, so don't use it. Only
     t,b,h types.
  The default is 'd'.

TITLE1,...,TITLE4
  Titles for the g and o output formats. Titles 2-4 apply only
  to o. Defaults are ' '.

DOLOGF
  Set to 't' or 'y', this will make DELAUNDO to write a logfile.
  Default is 'f','n'.

LOGFIL
  This string is the name of the logfile. Default is 'delaundo.log'.

ENDDAT
  Any information after this keyword will be ignored.



