DELAUNDO creates triangular grids based on the Frontal Delaunay
Method (Frod). 

The triangulation algorithm employed is Bowyer's/Watson's using
the circumcircle criterion. The ambiguity due to round-off error
is handled by using double precision coordinates and radii and by
defining a thickness of the circumcircle with all nodes found to
be on the circle not breaking the triangle. This leads to a 
certain minimum node distance that must be exceeded in order to
guarantee that the thickness of the circle remains small in
comparison to the radius. This minimum distance is calculated
as 10E-10 times the maximum distance in x or y. For CFD purposes
ten orders of magnitude ought to be sufficient.

Delaundo generates an initial Delaunay triangulation from a set
of input boundary points. This initial grid is used as the basis of a
background grid to interpolate a local length scale between the
nodes of the triangles in the grid. As the
connectivity in this background grid is uniquely determined
by the distribution of the boundary nodes, unwanted interpolation
between finely discretized concave geometries may occur. To
prevent FroD from using a too fine scale, the user can require
no connectivity between specific geometry segments using the
ANTICO statements in .ctr and .pts files. Extra nodes
are then inserted that are only present in the background grid
and remove the illicit connections. The spacing at these inserted
nodes is extrapolated from the surfaces with an average gradient.
It is recommende to view the stretching and spacing distribution
of the background mesh before generating the mesh by using the
OUTTYP b option in the .ctr file.

In the case of triangulations with stretched regions, extra
nodes are inserted at a user defined distance DELTAS around
each frontal surface. This defines a rim of triangles around
the frontal surfaces where the stretching magnitude decays
from the user specified maximum aspect ratio MAXASP at the
boundary to the isotropic value of 1. at the outer edge of
the rim. In this stretched region rectangular boxes along
the surface are built with a height of the maximum facelength
of the boundary node distribution divided by the locally
interpolated stretching magnitude. The boxes are being built
as long as the corners of the box remain in the rim of the
frontal surface they are associated with and as long as the
height of the box is smaller than its width.

In order to achieve a smooth transition from the stretched
node generation process to the isotropic one, the boxes ought
to exhibit isotropy where the process ceases. This occurs
automatically at the outer edge of the stretched layer where
the local aspect ratio tends to unity. At trailing edges or
corners the boundary node distribution has to be chosen fine
enough to revert to isotropy here as well. Isotropy cannot
be achieved where stretching rims of different surfaces inter-
fere with each other and the stretching magnitude does not
decay to isotropy. To handle these cases, up to two of the
outermost layers of stretched wedges can be opened for retri-
angulation of the isotropic process using ISMOOT in the .ctr
file. Further grid quality improvement can be achieved by
swapping grid diagonals to minimize the maximum angle speci-
fying FLATSW in the .ctr file.

The isotropic node generation process generates nodes from
frontal faces that are detected as faces shared between 
acceptable nearly equilateral triangles and non-acceptable
skewed triangles. The ensuing node distribution is smoothed
by requiring a spacing disk around each node that may not
be violated by any other node before new nodes are inserted.
The process stops when no more grid improvement by node
insertion can be achieved. The resulting triangulation is
extremely regular except where fronts merge or collapse. 
Hence, it is recommended to keep outer boundaries non frontal
using the ITYPBN statement in the .pts file in order to
have the 'sew-up' as far away from the physical boundaries
as possible. 

Boundary conformality is enforced by angular swapping at 
various stages of the generation process. However, the
currently employed algorithm is rather crude and not fool-
proof. It can fail on very crude boundary discretizations
where non-conformality across several consecutive nodes
occurs. In that case, refine your boundaries in highly
curved regions, or wait for the next update.

In case of problems, mail to muller@engin.umich.edu. If you
want to know more about the method, read the references:

[1]   J.-D. M\"uller, H. Deconinck, P.L. Roe, ``A Frontal 
      Approach for Node Generation in Delaunay Triangulations'',
      AGARD R 787.

[2]   J.-D. M\"uller, H. Deconinck, P.L. Roe, ``A Frontal Approach
      for internal node generation in Delaunay Triangulations.'',
      Submitted to Int. J. Num. Meth. Fluids.

[3]   J.-D. M\"uller, ``Proven Angular Bounds and 
      Stretched Triangulations with the Frontal Delaunay Method'',
      to be presented at the 11th AIAA CFD Conference, Orlando, 1993.

Enjoy, Jens.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  Yabbadynamics: n., progressive force which enables Fred Flintstone  |
|                 to power a stone automobile with just his feet.      |
|                                                                      |
|        Jens-Dominik Mueller, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor       |
|                       muller@engin.umich.edu                         |
------------------------------------------------------------------------
